---
layout: default
title: "MP 3.3: Creating and consuming a RESTful API"
due: April 6, 11.59PM CST
<!-- permalink: lab1.html -->
---
### Due Date - *April 6*, 2015, 11.59PM CST

<span style="color: red"> Attention: </span> Please watch [this repository](https://github.com/uiuc-web-programming/sp2015), [this repository](https://github.com/uiuc-web-programming/mp3_client_starter) and [this repository](https://github.com/uiuc-web-programming/mp3_server_starter) on Github (by clicking the watch button on the top right) to make sure you receive notifications if changes are made to the MPs or the Labs.

<span style="color: red"> Change Log: </span> 

1. `filter` query string parameter has been renamed to `select` in part A.
2. New field `assignedUser` added to Task schema.
3. Pagination requirements for Part B have changed. No pagination required for User List.
4. Number of Users and Tasks that need to be in the database have been lowered. Also, a script for populating the database will be provided.
5. New requirement for delete buttons in User List and Task List.
6. New query string parameter, **count**, added to spec.
7. Dropped the requirement to have sorting and filtering for the User List.
8. Dropped the requirement to have users be editable on the front end.
9. More details added to Add User and Add task views.
10. Video released.
11. Date picker recommendation added.

###Overview

In this MP, you will create a REST API (using Node, Express and Mongo) and create a front-end (using Angular) that consumes the API. Both the parts can be developed independently. When you are developing the API you can test it using [Postman](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/postman-rest-client/fdmmgilgnpjigdojojpjoooidkmcomcm?hl=en). When you are developing your front-end, you can test it using our reference API implementation at http://www.uiucwp.com:4000/api.

###Part A: Creating a RESTful API

Goal: Implement an API with the following end-points (they would be preceded by something like `http://localhost:4000/api/`). Your implementation should use Node, Express and Mongoose.


| Endpoints| Actions | Intended Outcome                                    |
|----------|---------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| users    | GET     | Respond with a List of users                        |
|          | POST    | Create a new user. Respond with details of new user |
|          | OPTIONS | See the last tip at the bottom of the page          |
| users/:id| GET     | Respond with details of specified user or 404 error |
|          | PUT     | Replace entire user with supplied user or 404 error |
|          | DELETE  | Delete specified user or 404 error                  |
| tasks    | GET     | Respond with a List of tasks                        |
|          | POST    | Create a new task. Respond with details of new task |
|          | OPTIONS | See the last tip at the bottom of the page          |
| tasks/:id| GET    | Respond with details of specified task or 404 error  |
|          | PUT     | Replace entire task with supplied task or 404 error |
|          | DELETE  | Delete specified user or 404 error                  |

In addition, your implementation should support the following JSON encoded query string parameters for the GET requests to the `users` and `tasks` endpoints:

| Paramter | Description                                                                                  |
|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| where    | filter results based on JSON query                                                           |
| sort     | specify the order in which to sort each specified field  (1- ascending; -1 - descending)     |
| select   | specify the set of fields to include or exclude in each document  (1 - include; 0 - exclude) |
| skip     | specify the number of results to skip in the result set; useful for pagination               |
| limit    | specify the number of results to return (default should be 100 for tasks and unlimited for users)                    |
| **count**    | **if set to true, return the count of documents that match the query (instead of the documents themselves)**                    |

Here are some example queries and what they would return:

| Query                                                                                | Description                                             |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| `http://www.uiucwp.com:4000/api/users?where={"_id": "55099652e5993a350458b7b7"}`         | Returns a list with a single user with the specified ID |
| `http://www.uiucwp.com:4000/api/tasks?where={"completed": true}`                          | Returns a list of completed tasks                       |
| `http://www.uiucwp.com:4000/api/tasks?where={"_id": {"$in": ["235263523","3872138723"]}}` | Returns a set of tasks                                  |
| `http://www.uiucwp.com:4000/api/users?sort={"name": 1}`                                  | Returns a list of users sorted by name                  |
| `http://www.uiucwp.com:4000/api/users?select={"_id": 0}`                                  | Returns a list of users without the _id field           |
| `http://www.uiucwp.com:4000/api/users?skip=60&limit=20`                                   | Returns user number 61 to 80                            |

**Your API should be able to handle any combination of those parameters in a single request**. For example, the following is a valid GET request:

```javascript
http://www.uiucwp.com:4000/api/users?sort={"name": 1}&skip=60&limit=20
```

Your User schema should have the following three fields:

1. "name" - String
+ "email" - String
+ "pendingTasks" - [String] - The _id fields of the *pending* tasks that this user has
+ "dateCreated" - Date - should be set automatically by server

Your Task schema should have the following five fields:

1. "name" - String
+ "description" - String
+ "deadline" - Date
+ "completed" - Boolean
+ **"assignedUser"** - String - The _id field of the user this task is assigned to - default ""
+ "assignedUserName" - String - The name field of the user this task is assigned to - default "unassigned"
+ "dateCreated" - Date - should be set automatically by server to present date 

We assume that each task can be assigned only to one user.

Requirements:

1. Your database should be on [mongolab](http://www.mongolab.com). It should contain at least <del>50</del> 20 users and <del>200</del> 100 tasks (about half of which should be completed) ( <del> You can use your favourite scripting language to insert data through the REST API you are building </del>. **We will provide you a script to do this after spring break.**).
+ Responses from your API should be a JSON object with two fields. The first field should be named `message` and should contain a human readable String. The second field should be named `data` and should contain the actual JSON response object. For example, here is a valid response:

```javascript
{
	"message": "OK",
	"data": {
				"_id": "55099652e5993a350458b7b7",
				"email": "sid.sethupathi@gmail.com",
	        	"name": "Sid Sethupathi"
			}
}
```

+ Error responses from your API should also also be a JSON object with a `message` and `data` fields. Messages have to sensible and human readable so that on the client side it can be displayed to the user. Also, it should be independent of the server side technology that you are using. For example, your API should not return an error message directly from Mongoose to the client. For examples of error messages, take a look at the API reference implementation that we have provided.
+ Your API should respond with appropriate [HTTP status codes](http://www.restapitutorial.com/httpstatuscodes.html) for both successful and error responses. You should at least have the following codes: 200 (success), 201 (created), 404 (not found), 500 (server error).
+ You should implement the query string functionality by using the methods provided by Mongoose (as opposed to querying Mongoose for all the results and then doing the filtering/sorting/skipping etc. in your Node/Express application code).
+ Have server side validation for:
	+ Users cannot be created (or updated) without a name or email. All other fields that the user did not specify should be set to reasonable values.
	+ Multiple users with the same email cannot exist.
	+ Tasks cannot be created (or updated) without a name or a deadline. All other fields that the user did not specify should be set to reasonable values.
+ <del> If a user is deleted, all pending tasks that the user had should be updated to have `assignedUserName` changed to "unassigned" </del> **You should handle this in the front end (part B)**.
+ <del> If a task is deleted, it should be deleted from the `pendingTasks` array of the user it was assigned to </del> **You should handle this in the front end (part B)**.
+ In terms of code, your routes can be defined in the `server.js` file. Your Mongoose models should however all be under the `models` directory. 



###Part B: Consuming a RESTful API using AngularJS

Goal: Create a single-page AngularJS task management app that uses the API you developed in part A. 

Requirements:
<ol>
<li> Your app should have the following views:
	<ol>
		<li>
		Settings:
			<ul>
				<li>Should atleast have a way to specify the URL to the API </li>
	    	</ul>
		</li>
	    <li>
	    User List:
	    <ul>
	    	<li>List **all** user names <del>(20 at a time)</del>. The API should be called only to return the needed information about each user (user name and _id). Clicking on a user should take us to the User Details view.</li>
	    	<li><del>Have next and previous buttons. </del></li>
	    	<li>Have a button to create a new user that takes you to Add User view. </li>
	    	<li><del>Have a sort-by dropdown menu with appropriate options (name, dateCreated) and ascending/descending radio buttons. Any change to the sorting inputs should result in an API call that gets the new data (we do not want you to sort or filter data in the front-end).</del></li>
	    	<li>**Have a delete button next to each displayed user.**</li>
		</ul>
	    </li> 
	    <li> 
	    Task List: 
	    <ul>
	    	<li>List task names (use **pagination** to display only <del>20</del> 10 at a time) with the name of the assigned user next to it. The API should be called only to return the needed information about each task (name, _id, assignedUserName). Clicking on a task should take us to the Task Details view.</li>
	    	<li>Have an input (for example radio buttons) to show "All", "Completed" or "Pending" tasks. By default it should show the Pending tasks. Changing the input should result in an API call (no filtering on the front-end).</li>
	    	<li>Have next and previous buttons. </li>
	    	<li>Have a button to create a new task that takes you to Add Task view.</li> 
	    	<li>Have a sort-by dropdown menu with appropriate options (name, username, dateCreated, deadline) and ascending/descending radio buttons. Any change to the sorting inputs should result in an API call that gets the new data (we do not want you to sort or filter data in the front-end).</li>
	    	<li>**Have a delete button next to each displayed task.**</li>
		</ul>
	    </li>
	  <li> 
	  User Details:
	  <ul>
	  	<li>Show details about the user (name, email)	</li>
	  	<li><del>Have a edit user button that takes you to Edit User view</del></li>
	  	<li>Show a list of pending tasks that the user has. This should be generated by making an API call to the tasks endpoint with query string parameters to perform appropriate filtering. There should be a way to mark each task as complete. As soon as a task is marked as complete, it should make an API call and then dissapear from that list. Also, clicking on a task should take us to the Task Details view.</li>
	  	<li>A button to Load completed tasks by this user. <del>This should load those tasks (20 at a time) in the same view with pagination.</del></li>
		</ul>
	</li>
	  <li>
	  Task Details: 
	  <ul>
	  	<li>Show details about the task (name, description, user assigned to etc.)</li>
	  	<li>Have a edit task button that takes you to Edit Task view</li>
	  	<li>Have a way to change the completion status of the tasks. When that is changed an API call should be made to change the status. </li>
	</ul>
	</li>
	<li>Add User: should have name and email fields </li>
	<li>Add Task: should have name, description, deadline and a dropdown menu to choose an assigned user</li>
	<li><del>Edit User</del></li>
	<li>Edit Task	</li>
	</ol>
</li>
<li> Data (say when editing a user's name) should change on the front-end only after the data is successfully changed on the server through the API. If the API call results in an error, the front end should display the error message (from the "message" field of the response). </li>
<li> Your app should use partials and routes to implement all the different views listed above. </li>
<li> You app should interact with the API only through custom service(s) that you write. You would have to inject these services into your controllers. </li>
<li>You should have client side validation to ensure that
	<ol>
		<li>
			Users cannot be created (or updated) without a name or email. Also check for the validity of the email provided. These fields should be marked with a red * to indicate that they are required and an error message should pop up when users don't comply.
		</li>
		<li>
			Tasks cannot be created (or updated) without a name or a deadline. These fields should be marked with a red * to indicate that they are required and an error message should pop up when users don't comply.
		</li>
	</ol>
</li>
<li>
	All your date entry fields should use a graphical date picker (wer recommend [this one](http://720kb.github.io/angular-datepicker/)).
</li>
</ol>

**A demo of a sample app can be seen in [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3MoYSJj5M3g).**

We recommend you to use the following project structure:

1. The main HTML file for this app should be `public/index.html`. It should contain the code that is common to all views in the app. For example, you can include all CSS and JavaScript files here. You can also have code for a navbar here. 
+ Your app has several views (as listed above). These should be implemented using different [Angular partial templates](https://docs.angularjs.org/tutorial/step_07) in `public/partials`
+ Your Angular code should go in `js/app.js` except for the conrollers and services. The controllers should be in `js/controllers.js` and the services should be in `js/services.js`. 
+ For styling, you can use the scss files in `scss` folder like you did in MP 1 or write a css file or borrow css/scss from elsewhere (such as from Foundation).
+ Your are free to use different Foundation components (such as [Abide Validation](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/components/abide.html)) or other libraries to augment your apps visual design and functionality. However, the core of your app should be written in AngularJS according to the specific details provided above.


Also, here is a list of angular things that you might find useful

* [$http](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/service/$http)
+ [Writing an AngularJS services](http://stackoverflow.com/a/13939813)


###Part C: Extra Credit - Creating a Parse API
Goal:

Create a REST API similar to that of Part A by using [Parse](https://parse.com/), a backend as a service provider. You will then make a copy of your front-end from Part B and change it to work with the Parse REST API. Note that you are not going to use the Parse Javascript SDK for this MP.

Ideally, these are the steps that you would follow to get this part working:

* Create an account on Parse and create an app called `mp3`. Create two new classes in the app called `User` and `Task`. 
+ Read the [Parse Relations Guide](https://parse.com/docs/relations_guide) and figure out how you want to embed task information in users and vice-versa. Parse gives you several options (relations, pointers etc.) and you should figure out which one best suits our use case.
+ Parse will create REST API endpoints corresponding to the two classes. Read the [REST API Documentation](https://www.parse.com/docs/rest) to figure out how to consume the API. Note that the API endpoints, query string parameters and resposnses might not be identical to that of your API from Part A.
+ You will need to specify the ' X-Parse-Application-Id' and the 'Parse-REST-API-Key' for your app in the HTTP requests you make to the endpoints. To do that you can use something like this in your app.js file:

```javascript
demoApp.run(function($http) {
  $http.defaults.headers.common['X-Parse-Application-Id']= 'sdsdhshdiueyhdeiuyreurherh'; 
  $http.defaults.headers.common['X-Parse-REST-API-Key']= 'dshdaydehjkewhewuryerhewr';
});
```
+ Create a separate copy of your code from Part B and modify the services to talk to Parse. You can hardcode the API URLs in your services (you do not have to set them through a settings view as in Part B). You might also have to modify your controllers because the responses from parse might not me identical to the responses from your API.


###Grade Breakdown
* 	Part A: Creating the REST API - 40%

This part will be graded mainly based on the correctness of your API responses. We will check the headers and the body of your HTTP responses to see if they adhere to our specification above.

* Part B: Consuming the REST API - 60%

This part will be graded mainly on the functionality that you are able to implement correctly in your front-end.

* Part C: Extra Credit - 10% 

This part will be graded mainly on your ability to have the API running and the correct use of the API in your front-end.

###Tips
* Some Mongoose parameters need a Javascript object instead of a JSON string. To do the conversion you can use something like:

```javascript
  var myObj = eval("("+myString+")");
```
+ Look at [this stack overflow question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/13937318/convert-angular-http-get-function-to-a-service) to understand how to write a service
+ Here is a [helpful beginner tutorial] for some of the technologies used in this MP.(http://adrianmejia.com/blog/2014/09/28/angularjs-tutorial-for-beginners-with-nodejs-expressjs-and-mongodb/)
+ Apparently, Angular always makes a [OPTIONS request before a POST request](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/24656488/angularjs-how-to-disable-option-request) and so your API should respond to a OPTIONS request at the endpoints where POST is implemented. You should be able to do something as simple as the following (as we are setting the response headers when we are handling the CORS stuff):

```javascript
someRoute.options(function(req, res){
      res.writeHead(200);
      res.end();
});
```


###Submission Details
Coming soon.
