---
layout: default
title: "Final Project: Your Own Web App!"
due: April 10, 11.59PM CST
<!-- permalink: lab1.html -->
---
### Proposal Due - *April 10*, 2015, 11.59PM CST
### Prototype Presentation Due - *April 19*, 2015, 11.59PM CST
### Final Presentation Date - *May 11*, 2015, 8.00AM CST

###Overview

Your goal is to **create a database-backed web application which utilizes a RESTful API** with the following constraints:

1. Your team may only consist of 3-4 people, with each person having a **specific** role.
2. Your project must be a web application that has a frontend, an API, JavaScript backend, and at least one database.
3. Your project needs to have user authentication.
4. Your project needs to have a heuristic evaluation with at least one revision. Make sure you plan time for this.
5. Your project must have a strong focus on design, primarily in user experience (UX), user interface (UI), and responsiveness.

###Part A: Proposal

Email a **one-page** PDF proposal to [uiuc.web.programming@gmail.com](mailto:uiuc.web.programming@gmail.com) containing the following:

+ Team Members (Names and NetIDs)
+ Problem Statement & Motivation
+ Solution Approach
+ Technologies used for front end & back end
+ Specific breakdown of what each team member is responsible for

###Part B: Prototype Presentation

**Due Date: 4/19**
**Presentations: 4/20 and 4/22 (in class)**

Details coming soon...

###Part C: Final Presentation

On the day of your final presentation (to be determined), your overall deliverables are:

+ Source Code for the Project / URL to GitHub Repository
+ URL to your hosted project
+ Approximately 5-minute video detailing your web app's purpose, design, and functionality
+ Your powerpoint deck

More details coming soon...

###Grade Breakdown

+ Proposal: 5%
+ Prototype Presentation: 10%
+ Final Presentation: 10%
+ Design (UX, UI, visual, responsive): 15%
+ Heuristic evaluation + 1 revision: 10%
+ Front end: 25%
+ Backend (API, javascript server, database): 25%

**Note**: There will be a final competition separate from the grading that will be judged on novelty and usefulness of app. Prizes will be awarded to top team(s).