---
layout: default
title: "MP 2.0: Responsiveness, Visual Design and AngularJS"
due: Mar 11, 11.59PM CST
<!-- permalink: lab1.html -->
---
### Due Date - *March 12*, 2015, 11.59PM CST

<span style="color: red"> Attention: </span> Please watch [this repository](https://github.com/uiuc-web-programming/sp2015) and [this repository](https://github.com/uiuc-web-programming/mp2_starter) on Github (by clicking the watch button on the top right) to make sure you receive notifications if changes are made to the MPs or the Labs.

###Overview
In this programming assignment you will make your single-page website responsive, improve its visual design, and implement a separate front-end interface using AngularJS. The assignment has three parts (and an additional extra credit part.) Part C is independent of Parts A and B and can be worked on without completing part A or B, but please read through the entire MP before you start.

You can use the development environment and server setup you used for MP 1. Refer to Lab 2 for details about the MP 2 starter code. 

###Part A: Responsive Design
Goal: Rewrite your website from MP 1 using the [Foundation front-end framework](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/) to make it responsive. You will also have the opportunity to use third-party UI components to achieve the same functionality (i.e., navigation bar, carousel) with fewer lines of code.

Requirements:

1. Keep the content the same as your MP 1 webpage. 
+ Start from scratch -- don't borrow code from MP1. Borrowing code from MP 1 will probably cause more problems and not actually save you time since most of the code will need to be rewritten.
+ Responsiveness: Your webpage needs to be responsive and have visible changes when going from large to medium and medium to small screen sizes. These changes have to be intentional and well thought out. You will have to submit a writeup that lists these changes (at least three) and the rationale behind them.
+ You are free to use any component that Foundation provides (such as buttons, drop-down menus etc.) if it makes sense for your website. The [Foundation documentation page](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/) lists all such components on the left side of the page.
+ You are free to use any third party plugins or libraries as you deem fit. For example, you can implement your carousel using [Slick Carousel](http://kenwheeler.github.io/slick/). However, make sure that all such libraries get installed when we do `npm install` and `bower install` after cloning your MP 2 code repo (this can be done by adding the libraries in the `packages.json` or `bower.json` file. 
+ You will get full credit for this part even if you do not change the default styling of foundation/third-party components.

###Part B: Visual Design
Goal: Improve the visual design of the webpage from Part A. Here are some specific things you can do:

1. Using the peer feedback from MP 1, identify aspects of the site's visual design that could be improved: better layout, color schemes, typography etc. You will have to submit a writeup that lists these areas (at least three) and how you improved them.
+ To customize Foundation components, modify the foundation scss files in `public/foundation/scss`. The [Foundation documentation](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/) describes the available sass variables/mixins for each component.
+ Additional styles can also be added to the scss files in `scss` folder like you did in MP 1.
+ Your redesign should draw on the visual design principles discussed in class:
    + functionally similar elements should have similar styling; functionally different elements should be styled differently
    + contrast should be used to give visual weight to important areas
    + use variations in font, size, weight, and style to create typographic contrast
	+ use whitespace to perceptually group related elements and separate semantically different areas
    + use margins, leading, and adequate background/text color contrast to make text more readable
    + choose fonts and colors that match the mood/message/content of your site


###Part C: AngularJS Front-End Design
Goal: Create a single-page AngularJS app that lets users interact with the data from the [IMDB top 250 movies](http://www.imdb.com/chart/top). We've already crawled the data and formatted it as JSON: `public/data/imdb250.json`. We also downloaded the corresponding poster images for each movie: `public/data/images`. The images are named using the `imdbID` for each movies. 

Your app should have the following features:

1. A list view where users can input a search query and the app returns a list of movies that match the query. There should also be a way to sort the search results based on different properties of the results (such as the name or rank) and of specifying an ordering (ascending and descending). Also, the search bar should filter as you type.
+ A gallery view that displays the movie posters for all the movies. There should be a way to select movies from different genres in the gallery.
+ When an item in search view or the gallery view is clicked, the app should display the different attributes of the selected movie (from the JSON file). Also, this view should have previous and next buttons (can be implemented with arrows) that lets the user cycle through the list of movies. 
+ You app should use animations wherever appropriate (at least once).
+ You should use partials
+ You are free to use Foundation's components (such as the grid etc. ) for this part as long as it is used for styling and not used to implement the core functionality of the app.

You can see a demo of a sample app in [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_xZYYViPvig).

You recommend you to use the following project structure:

1. The main HTML file for this app should be `public/imdb250.html`. It should contain the code that is common to all views in the app. For example, you can include all CSS and JavaScript files here.  
+ Your app has three main views (one for the list, one for the gallery and the other for displaying the details of a particuar movie). These should be implemented using three different [Angular routing and partial templates](https://docs.angularjs.org/tutorial/step_07). You can implement them in the three files in `public/partials`
+ Your Angular code should go in `js/app.js` except for the conrollers. The controllers should be in `js/controllers.js`. 
+ For styling, you can use the scss files in `scss` folder like you did in MP 1 or write a css file or borrow css/scss from elsewhere (such as from Foundation).


Also, here is a list of angular components that you might find useful

* [ngApp](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/directive/ngApp)
+ [ngController](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/directive/ngController)
+ [ngModel](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/directive/ngModel)
+ [ngRepeat](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/directive/ngRepeat)
+ [filter](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/service/$filter)
+ [orderBy](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/filter/orderBy)
+ [$http](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/service/$http)
+ [ngSrc](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/directive/ngSrc)

For the complete list, please refer to the [Angular documentation](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng).
 

###Part D: Extra Credit
1. Incorporate a data into your website from Part B. The dataset should be comparable in size to the IMDB dataset we provided. It should be read in from a JSON file and visualized on the site using Angular's client-side templating functionality.
+ Design and implement another view for Part C that lets you explore the data in a different way: think about the principles of user-centered design that we covered in class.

###Rules
1.	This is an individual assignment. No collaboration is permitted.
+   It is not permitted to copy/paste code that is not your own. You are, however, free to look at different code sources for inspiration and clarity. All sources (code as well as reading material) that you reference to complete this assignment must be declared in the submission.
+ If you think something you're doing might not be acceptable, please ask on Piazza.
+ If you have additional assets (say pictures) you should put them under `public/data` folder and put everything there or in its subfolders (say `public/data/pics` and `public/data/videos`). There should be no other place in your folder structure where you are loading assets from. For example, do not create a `css/images` directory.
+ You should not use absolute paths to load any of your asset files (say css, images or js) from your server. For example, there should not be anything like:

```html
src="/photos/skyline.jpg" 
```

They should all be relative paths (from your index.html file if thats where you are including this asset) like:

```html
src="./photos/skyline.jpg"
```
This is needed because when we host your code for grading, the folder structure on our server would be different from what it was on your server and things would break. So, you have to make sure the code in your `public` folder works no matter where the public folder is placed on a server.


###Grade Breakdown

1. 	Part A: Responsive Design - 30%
This part will be graded mainly based on the responsiveness of your design and the correct use of foundation components and other libraries. Visual design and style will not be a part of this grade.
+ Part B: Visual Design - 30%
This part will be graded mainly on visual design.
+ Part C: AngularJS Front-End Design - 40%
This part will be graded on functionality that is implemented and not on the visual design.
+ Part D: Extra Credit - 10% (5% for each part)

###Tips

1. To be able to debug AgularJS code in the chrome developer tools, you should install the [AngularJS Batarang (Stable)](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/angularjs-batarang-stable/niopocochgahfkiccpjmmpchncjoapek) plugin. Some other AngularJS debugging tips can be found [in this article](http://ionicframework.com/blog/angularjs-console/)
+ Also, if you have problems debugging your JavaScript due to uglification, you can disable it by commenting out line 46 of Gruntfile.js and uncommenting line 47. Your final submission for MP 2 should work with uglification though.
+ Uglification/minification of Angular code can result in undesirable changes (due to change in function parameter names). One thing you can do to avoid this is to always decare your controllers using the following template: 

```javascript
imdbControllers.controller('myController', ['$scope', '$http', function($scope, $http) {
  
}]);
```
instead of:

```javascript
imdbControllers.controller('myController', function($scope, $http) {
}); 
```
This prevents the function parameter names from being changed.


###Submission Details
You can find the MP2 Submission [here](http://uiucwp.com/mp2/submit)
 
There are 3 parts for this MP submission. 
(VERY IMPORTANT) Add *uiuc-web-programming* as a collaborator on your repository (instructions for [GitHub](https://help.github.com/articles/adding-collaborators-to-a-personal-repository/) and [Bitbucket](https://confluence.atlassian.com/display/BITBUCKET/Add+Users,+Set+Permissions,+and+Review+Account+Plans))
Submit the [step 1](http://uiucwp.com/mp2/submit) form, wait for an email from the build system, and verify that all parts of your MP (parts A, B, and C) look correct. You can resubmit this form if you want to make changes to your MP.
Complete and submit this *REQUIRED* [supplemental form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1L-PzXT2Ibqs-1lmIlyyX6ERsff0RBT9zB6wUaFInJPw/viewform). You only need to submit this form once. So, if you decide to rebuild your website in order to fix any broken resources, you should not resubmit the supplemental form.
 
For Step 1, it is crucial that you make sure that your site looks the exact same way you want your website to be graded. You should pay particular attention to Rule 5 from the MP2 spec](http://uiuc-web-programming.github.io/sp2015/MP-2/) for all your CSS, JavaScript, and asset references.
 
If you run into any issues using the submission and build system, please email [sethupa2@illinois.edu](sethupa2@illinois.edu). 

The MP2 Deadline has been extended to Thursday March 12th @ 11:59pm.