---
layout: default
title: "MP 4.0: Task Managers from Outer Space!"
due: May 6, Time 11.59PM CST
<!-- permalink: lab1.html -->
---
### Due Date - *May 6*, 2015, 11.59PM CST

<span style="color: red">Attention:</span> This is a make-up programming assignment. If completed, your grade on this MP will replace ~~your lowest~~ **an existing MP grade of your choice**. This assignment should not be considered extra credit and will not give you extra points on the midterm or the class overall.

<span style="color: red">Attention:</span> **We will not be providing any starter code for this MP**. It is up to you to learn how to use this framework, organize your files, bundle them, ensure that a README is included, and that it is properly committed to a private repository (shared to **uiuc-web-programming**). ~~Please ensure that your Meteor app builds and runs properly in your Vagrant/NodeJS development environment.~~ Because your final demonstration of your Meteor app
will be on your own laptop, you are free to develop your Meteor app in either your local machine or virtual machine.

###Meteor

Many optimizations are possible using the Meteor framework for this task manager system. The primary benefits (which you will need to incorporate) are listed below:

1. Applications built in Meteor are real-time by default. Two instances of your app will have the DOM updated automatically.
+ Meteor does not use data-bindings or controllers as Angular would. This should make the front-end significantly simpler.
+ There is no need to create or call API endpoints. Meteor seamlessly synchronizes data on the client and the server.
+ Query-string functionality is already implemented using Meteor collections.
+ Live-editing of the HTML, CSS, and Javascript files are automatically updated in the browser. This is great for webapps with continuous development after deployment.
+ Meteor makes extensive use of templating, but in addition to templating variables, Meteor supports templated callback functions which can then change the DOM.
+ Meteor allows you to immediately deploy your app to test on their servers using the "deploy" command.
+ After developing, you can bundle your code such that anyone with a Node.JS server could download your webapp and instantly run it.

It is <span style="color: red">strongly</span> suggested that you watch the following video to see all the benefits of Meteor in action!

<iframe width="640" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/fsi0aJ9yr2o?rel=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

###Requirements

Your goal is to **recreate the User-Task management system of MP 3 using the Meteor framework**. Follow [these exact instructions](https://www.meteor.com/install) to get started with building your Meteor app from scratch. While there is no stylistic requirements for your webapp, the overall functionality must remain exactly the same.

####User Schema

1. "name" - String
+ "email" - String
+ "pendingTasks" - [String] - The _id fields of the *pending* tasks that this user has
+ "dateCreated" - Date - should be set automatically by server

####Task Schema

1. "name" - String
+ "description" - String
+ "deadline" - Date
+ "completed" - Boolean
+ "assignedUser" - String - The _id field of the user this task is assigned to - default ""
+ "assignedUserName" - String - The name field of the user this task is assigned to - default "unassigned"
+ "dateCreated" - Date - should be set automatically by server to present date 

####Views

1. User List:
	+ List **all** user names (20 at a time using pagination). Clicking on a user should take us to the User Details view.
	+ Have next and previous buttons. 
	+ Have a button to create a new user that takes you to Add User view. 
	+ Have a sort-by dropdown menu with appropriate options (name, dateCreated) and ascending/descending radio buttons.
	+ Have a delete button next to each displayed user
+ Task List:
	+ List task names (use pagination to display only 10 at a time) with the name of the assigned user next to it. Clicking on a task should take us to the Task Details view.
	+ Have an input (for example radio buttons) to show "All", "Completed" or "Pending" tasks. By default it should show the Pending tasks.
	+ Have next and previous buttons.
	+ Have a button to create a new task that takes you to Add Task view.
	+ Have a sort-by dropdown menu with appropriate options (name, username, dateCreated, deadline) and ascending/descending radio buttons.
	+ Have a delete button next to each displayed task.
+ User Details:
	+ Show details about the user (name, email).
	+ ~~Have a edit user button that takes you to Edit User view.~~
	+ Show a list of pending tasks that the user has. 
	+ There should be a way to mark each task as complete. As soon as a task is marked as complete, it should dissapear from that list. Also, clicking on a task should take us to the Task Details view.
+ Task Details: 
	+ Show details about the task (name, description, assigned user, etc).
	+ Have a edit task button that takes you to Edit Task view.
	+ Have a way to change the completion status of the tasks.

####Modals

1. Add User:
	+ Use a form to collect a new user's name and email.
+ Add Task:
	+ Use a form to create a new task with a name, description, deadline, and a dropdown menu to choose an assigned user.

These modals should be accessible through buttons in the User List and Task List, respectively. After succesfully adding a user/task, the modal should disappear and an automatically-updated user/task list should appear in real-time.

You should have client side validation in both forms to ensure that:
+ Users cannot be created (or updated) without a name or email.
+ Duplicate users should not be allowed (check this by looking for duplicate emails).
+ Tasks cannot be created (or updated) without a name or a deadline. 
+ These form fields should be marked with a red * to indicate that they are required and an error message should pop up when users do not comply.

####Server

You do still need to construct your own server using Meteor.

###Submission Details

A submission form will be provided at a later date for you to submit a link to your Github repository with your complete webapp code. To deploy your Meteor app on our Node.JS server, first [create a new repository](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-new-repository) on Github with the name **mp4** without README/gitignore/licenses, then find the remote repository URL, then perform the following operations:

```
cd /path/to/your/webapp
meteor build --directory ./
mv bundle mp4
cd mp4
git init
git add .
git commit -m 'First commit of CS498RK MP4'
git remote add origin YOUR-REPOSITORY-URL
git remote -v
git push origin master
```

You should now have an `mp4` folder in your source directory which has been pushed to your Github **mp4** repository.

###Demo Details

+ **You must RSVP for your Meteor app demo through this [Google form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/13m31IQOM7_j5N5MNHPsO9Bg6BIU6Upj_WXTvRPrfaUQ/viewform)**. 
+ You will then have an option to select a demo slot-time on May 7, 2015 (Reading Day).
+ Demos will be given at _a location TBD_ to a CS498RK course staff member. 
+ All of the requirements and functionality of MP3 and those listed above will be tested for on-the-spot.
