---
layout: default
title: "Final Project: Your Own Web App!"
due: Feb 24, 11.59PM CST
<!-- permalink: lab1.html -->
---


<span class="section-heading">Overview</span>

Your goal is to **create a database-backed web application which utilizes a RESTful API** with the following constraints:

1. Your team may only consist of 3-4 people, with each person having a **specific** role.
2. Your project must be a web application that has a frontend, an API, JavaScript backend, and at least one database.
3. Your project needs to have user authentication.
4. Your project needs to have a heuristic evaluation with at least one revision. Make sure you plan time for this.
5. Your project must have a strong focus on design, primarily in user experience (UX), user interface (UI), and responsiveness.

<span class="section-heading">Part A: Proposal</span>

<span style="color: red">**Due - *Oct 12*, 2016, 11.59PM CST**</span>

Fill out [this short Google form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc7fgDZ5-yHJ8aIRG2AjsCxjw42CnklbMkOz74szwGJNT7KFA/viewform) with your team information

Upload a **one-page** PDF proposal to [this Google drive folder](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9NPDyNcX5d8cGxPNEd5Rzd4MW8) containing the following:

1. Team Name
2. Team Members (Names and NetIDs)
3. Three Project Proposals with the following:
  - Problem Statement + Motivation
  - User problems you are solving
  - Basic interactions your app will support in service of goal
  - Other apps that are similar
  - How your app is different

There is no length requirement for the proposals, but they should cover all the information above.

<span class="section-heading">Part B: Paper Prototypes</span>

<span style="color: red">**Due - *November 16*, 2016, In Class**</span>

During class, teams will perform heuristic evaluations of each other's paper prototypes and give feedback.

Paper prototypes should capture at least three of the key interactions in your team's web app. The paper prototypes can be done digitally (using software like powerpoint or balsamiq), but should be printed and brought to class. During class, the TAs will be walking around grading prototypes for quality and completion.

<span class="section-heading">Part C: Final Presentation</span>

<span style="color: red">**Due - *Dec 7*, 2016, In Class**</span>

On the day of your final presentation, your overall deliverables are:

1. Source Code for the Project / URL to GitHub Repository
2. URL to your hosted project
3. Approximately 5-minute video detailing your web app's purpose, design, and functionality
4. Peer evaluation

Your presentation will be 5 minutes for the video and 2 minutes for Q&amp;A.

<b>Video Requirements</b>

1. 5-minutes length max
2. Should focus on design and functionality
3. Use screen capture software (SnagIt/ScreenFlow (Mac)/Camstasia/Quicktime)
4. Demo the important user flows
5. Voice-over should tell a concrete story: user, problem, and how your app solves it
6. Communicate the motivation behind design decisions (e.g. _how did heuristic evaluation play a role in changes that were made to the interface?_)

<b>Grade Breakdown</b>

+ proposal/prototypes (10%)
+ video (15%)
+ design (UX, UI, responsiveness, evaluation) (35%)
+ front end implementation (15%)
+ back end implementation (15%)
+ user authentication (10%)

<b>Submission Instructions</b>

TBD

<!-- + Each team should fill up the project submission [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1ZodilFDSTuoJAh76_0mYPyoFxhAhUabqOtUXPh7-n5A/viewform).
+ Each team member should fill up the  peer [evaluation](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1ECFqjz5mcm4Re9M1er0mJxrg8C3Oh4xVLrWVq96EChM/viewform). We take the feedback from your peers about you contribution to the project very seriously. It has the potential to significantly impact your grade for the project.
+ The deadline to fill out both of these forms is noon central time on Friday, May 6th.  -->

**Note**: There will be a final competition separate from the grading that will be judged on novelty and usefulness of app. The competition will be held at Research Park with engineers from industry judging the projects. More details coming soon.
