---
layout: default
title: "MP 2.0: Responsiveness, Foundation & Research Data"
due: Mar 1, 11.59PM CST
<!-- permalink: lab1.html -->
---
<span class="section-heading">Due Date - *March 1*, 2016, 11.59PM CST</span>

<span style="color: red"> Attention: </span> Please watch [this repository](https://github.com/uiuc-web-programming/sp2016) and [this repository](https://github.com/uiuc-web-programming/mp2_starter) on Github (by clicking the watch button on the top right) to make sure you receive notifications if changes are made to the MPs or the Labs.

<div class="section-heading">Overview</div>
In this programming assignment, you will make your single-page website responsive & improve its visual design.

You can use the development environment and server setup you used for MP 1. Refer to Lab 2 & the README for details about the MP 2 starter code.

<div class="section-heading">Part A: Responsive Design With Foundation</div>
Goal: Rewrite your website from MP 1 using the [Foundation front-end framework](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/) to make it responsive. You will also have the opportunity to use third-party UI components to achieve the same functionality (i.e., navigation bar, carousel) with fewer lines of code.

Requirements:

1. Keep the content the same as your MP 1 webpage.
+ Start from scratch -- don't borrow code from MP1. Borrowing code from MP 1 will probably cause more problems and not actually save you time since most of the code will need to be rewritten.
+ Responsiveness: Your webpage needs to be responsive and have visible changes when going from large to medium and medium to small screen sizes. These changes have to be intentional and well thought out. You will have to submit a writeup that lists these changes (at least three) and the rationale behind them.
+ You are free to use any component that Foundation provides (such as buttons, drop-down menus etc.) if it makes sense for your website. The [Foundation documentation page](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/) lists all such components on the left side of the page.
+ You are free to use any third party plugins or libraries as you deem fit. For example, you can implement your carousel using [Slick Carousel](http://kenwheeler.github.io/slick/). However, make sure that all such libraries get installed when we do `npm install` and `bower install` after cloning your MP 2 code repo (this can be done by adding the libraries in the `packages.json` or `bower.json` file.
+ You will get full credit for this part even if you do not change the default styling of foundation/third-party components.

<div class="section-heading">Part B: Visual Design</div>

Goal: Improve the visual design of the web page from Part A. Here are some specific things you can do:

1. Identify aspects of the site's visual design that could be improved: better layout, color schemes, typography etc. You will have to submit a writeup that lists these areas (at least three) and how you improved them.
+ To customize Foundation components, modify the Foundation scss files in `public/foundation6_lib/scss`. The [Foundation documentation](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/) describes the available sass variables/mixins for each component.
+ Additional styles can also be added to the scss files in `source_scss` folder like you did in MP 1.
+ Your redesign should draw on the visual design principles discussed in class:
 1. functionally similar elements should have similar styling; functionally different elements should be styled differently
 + contrast should be used to give visual weight to important areas
 + use variations in font, size, weight, and style to create typographic contrast
 + use whitespace to perceptually group related elements and separate semantically different areas
 + use margins, leading, and adequate background/text color contrast to make text more readable
 + choose fonts and colors that match the mood/message/content of your site

<div class="section-heading">Part C: Research Data</div>

We want you to perform research for your responsive website using [Apropose](https://apropose.com/). This can be for any type of page that you are creating (for a portfolio, for a personal website, for an organization, etc).

We want you to search through different designs on Apropose’s site and create at least 2 trendsets  of 5-10 webpages each.  The first trendset should be focused on visual and stylistic elements that you’ve noticed. The webpages that you collect in this trendset are ones that you looked to for stylistic or visual inspiration or have elements that you can compare to those on your own site. The second trendset you create should be focused on functionality. In this trendset, focus on the functionality of webpages and identify  elements that inspired you (e.g. carousels, videos, drop-downs menus, tooltips ). A third (optional) trendset can be focused on the information architecture (or the content structure) of different webpages and how that inspired your own webpage.

Each webpage in a trendset should have an explanation with your observations about that particular page, why it’s in this trendset, and what conclusions you’ve drawn about it. Please add these explanations in the ‘notes’ box of each webpage in your trendset.

Things to talk about can include:

1. The pros and cons of different designs and pages that you see
+ Design trends or features that you notice across different pages (ideally this trend is also reflected in your own webpage)
+ How the different responsive elements on the page move as the page is resized
+ What information is on the page and how it’s organized
+ Any type of design trend that you’ve noticed on the page or across multiple pages (e.g. if you’re looking at fashion websites and notice that many of them have black navigation bars and use small font in all caps)

Instructions: To get started, please sign up for an account on Apropose [here](https://apropose.com/signup/illinois!edu).
You must sign up using your illinois.edu email account. If you run into problems signing up, please post on Piazza.

Creating a trendset:

1. Navigate to your profile by clicking on your name in the top right corner. Then click on “My Trendsets”.
2. Click “Create a trendset” in the upper right.
3. Fill out a title and description for your trendset and then click “Make My Trendset”

Adding to your trendset:
There are two ways to add a webpage to your trendset. The first way is to type or paste the URL of the webpage into the box at the top of your trendset detail view. The second way is to click into a webpage and add it to your trendset using the icon on the top right.

Submission: You will submit URLs to your trendsets along with your MP2 code.

To get the shareable link for your trendset, navigate into the specific trendset by clicking on it (from your profile) and in the top right click on the link icon. Copy and paste the link for each of your trendsets into the submission form.

<div class="section-heading">Rules</div>
1. This is an individual assignment. No collaboration is permitted.
+ It is not permitted to copy/paste code that is not your own. You are, however, free to look at different code sources for inspiration and clarity. All sources (code as well as reading material) that you reference to complete this assignment must be declared in the submission.
+ If you think something you're doing might not be acceptable, please ask on Piazza.
+ If you have additional assets (say pictures) you should put them under `public/data` folder and put everything there or in its subfolders (say `public/data/pics` and `public/data/videos`). There should be no other place in your folder structure where you are loading assets from. For example, do not create a `css/images` directory.
+ You should not use absolute paths to load any of your asset files (say css, images or js) from your server. For example, there should not be anything like:

```html
src="/photos/skyline.jpg"
```

They should all be relative paths (from your index.html file if thats where you are including this asset) like:

```html
src="./photos/skyline.jpg"
```
This is needed because when we host your code for grading, the folder structure on our server would be different from what it was on your server and things would break. So, you have to make sure the code in your `public` folder works no matter where the public folder is placed on a server.


<div class="section-heading">Grading Breakdown</div>

TBD
