---
layout: default
title: "MP 2.0: Responsiveness, Foundation & Research Data"
due: Oct 3, 11.59PM CST
<!-- permalink: mp2.html -->
---
<span class="section-heading">Due Date - Oct 3, 2016, 11.59PM CST</span>

<span style="color: red"> Attention: </span> Please watch [this repository](https://github.com/uiuc-web-programming/mp2_starter) on Github (by clicking the watch button on the top right) to make sure you receive notifications if changes are made to the MP. 
<span style="color: red"> Attention: </span> Please pay attention to [Piazza](https://piazza.com/class/is4r0uppzfx4q9) because we will often make important announcements there regarding the MP before we make it in class.

<div class="section-heading">Part A: Research Data</div>

<!-- We want you to search through different designs on Apropose’s site and create at least 2 trendsets  of 5-10 webpages each.  The first trendset should be focused on visual and stylistic elements that you’ve noticed. The webpages that you collect in this trendset are ones that you looked to for stylistic or visual inspiration or have elements that you can compare to those on your own site. The second trendset you create should be focused on functionality. In this trendset, focus on the functionality of webpages and identify  elements that inspired you (e.g. carousels, videos, drop-downs menus, tooltips ). A third (optional) trendset can be focused on the information architecture (or the content structure) of different webpages and how that inspired your own webpage.

Each webpage in a trendset should have an explanation with your observations about that particular page, why it’s in this trendset, and what conclusions you’ve drawn about it. Please add these explanations in the ‘notes’ box of each webpage in your trendset. -->

For the research portion of this MP, we are asking you to do research on other web pages that you find interesting and can draw inspiration from. There are two parts to this research component.

**Requirements:**

1. Find 3 webpages that have a **visual or stylistic element** that you enjoy or find interesting. These webpages are the ones that you looked to for stylistic or visual inspiration or have elements that you can compare to those on your own webpage. For each webpage, write an explanation with your observations about that particular page and why you chose it. Your write up for each web page must be at least 100 words.
2. Find  webpages that have **functionality** that you enjoy or find interesting. For these webpages, focus on the functionality and identity elements and interactions that inspired you (e.g. carousels, videos, drop-down menus, tooltips, etc). For each webpage, write an explanation with your observations about that particular page and why you chose it. Your write up for each web page must be at least 100 words.


You will put your write ups in the corresponding folders in `research_data` in the MP2 starter.

Things to talk about can include:

1. The pros and cons of different designs and pages that you see
2. Features that you notice across different pages (ideally this trend is also reflected in your own webpage)
3. How the different responsive elements on the page move as the page is resized
4. What information is on the page and how it’s organized
5. Any type of design trend that you’ve noticed on the page or across multiple pages (e.g. if you’re looking at fashion websites and notice that many of them have black navigation bars and use small font in all caps)
6. How the site will help you improve your own or what elements from it you will use in the future


<div class="section-heading">Part B: Responsive Design With Foundation</div>
Goal: Create a  website using the [Foundation front-end framework](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/) to make it responsive. You will also have the opportunity to use third-party UI components to achieve the same functionality (i.e., navigation bar, carousel) with fewer lines of code.

In this programming assignment, you will make a single-page website responsive & aesthetically pleasing. Part A is about doing research for your site and understanding common patterns in information architecture, style, and responsive design. Now, you implement.

You can use the development environment and server setup you used for MP 1. Refer to Lab 2 & the README for details about the MP 2 starter code.

**Requirements:**

1. Create a single-page marketing website for a **real client**: person, organization, company, concert, movie, etc. NOTE: You can reuse content for MP1 provided that it follows this requirement.
2. Start from scratch -- don't borrow code from MP1. Borrowing code from MP 1 will probably cause more problems and not actually save you time since most of the code will need to be rewritten.
3. Responsiveness: Your webpage needs to be responsive and have visible changes when going from large to medium and medium to small screen sizes. These changes have to be intentional and well thought out. You will have to submit a writeup that lists these changes **(at least three)** and the rationale behind them.
4. Identify aspects of the site's visual design that could be improved: better layout, color schemes, typography etc. You will have to submit a writeup that lists these areas **(at least three)** and how you improved them.
5. You must have all the elements we asked of you in [MP1](https://uiuc-web-programming.github.io/fa2016/MP-1) (i.e., navigation bar, carousel)


To improve the visual design of the web page from Part B, here are some specific things you can do:

1. Identify aspects of the site's visual design that could be improved: better layout, color schemes, typography etc. You will have to submit a writeup that lists these areas (at least three) and how you improved them.
2. To customize Foundation components, modify the Foundation scss files in `source_sass/foundation`. The [Foundation documentation](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/) describes the available sass variables/mixins for each component.
3. Additional styles can also be added to the scss files in `source_sass` folder like you did in MP 1.
4. Your redesign should draw on the visual design principles discussed in class:
 + functionally similar elements should have similar styling; functionally different elements should be styled differently
 + contrast should be used to give visual weight to important areas
 + use variations in font, size, weight, and style to create typographic contrast
 + use whitespace to perceptually group related elements and separate semantically different areas
 + use margins, leading, and adequate background/text color contrast to make text more readable
 + choose fonts and colors that match the mood/message/content of your site


<div class="section-heading">Rules</div>
1. This is an individual assignment. No collaboration is permitted.
2. It is not permitted to copy/paste code that is not your own. You are, however, free to look at different code sources for inspiration and clarity. All sources (code as well as reading material) that you reference to complete this assignment must be declared in the submission.
3. If you think something you're doing might not be acceptable, please ask on Piazza.
4. If you have additional assets (say pictures) you should put them under `public/media` folder and put everything there or in its subfolders (say `public/media/pics` and `public/media/videos`). There should be no other place in your folder structure where you are loading assets from. For example, do not create a `css/images` directory. You need to create the media folder yourself.
5. You are free to use any component that Foundation provides (such as buttons, drop-down menus etc.) if it makes sense for your website. The [Foundation documentation page](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/) lists all such components on the left side of the page.
6. You are free to use any third party plugins or libraries as you deem fit. For example, you can implement your carousel using [Slick Carousel](http://kenwheeler.github.io/slick/). However, make sure that all such libraries get installed when we do `npm install` and `bower install` after cloning your MP 2 code repo (this can be done by adding the libraries in the `packages.json` or `bower.json` file.
7. You should not use absolute paths to load any of your asset files (say css, images or js) from your server. For example, there should not be anything like:

- ```html
src="/photos/skyline.jpg"
```

- They should all be relative paths (from your index.html file if thats where you are including this asset) like:

- ```html
src="./photos/skyline.jpg"
```
- This is needed because when we host your code for grading, the folder structure on our server would be different from what it was on your server and things would break. So, you have to make sure the code in your `public` folder works no matter where the public folder is placed on a server.


<div class="section-heading">Grading Breakdown</div>

1. Research of Visual and Functional Design - 20%
2. Responsive Design - 60%
3. Visual Design - 20%
 
Please be mindful of the requirements that we've listed for each of these three sections. For the research portion, please be thorough with your write ups. For the responsive design portion, please responsify your website in at least 3 clear ways and explain what they are. For the visual design section, please improve your site in at least 3 ways and state why you made the changes you did. You will have a chance to explain what you did in the supplemental Google form when it is released.

Submission details: TBA
